Documentation Source:
superset.apache.org/docs/using-superset/creating-your-first-dashboard/index.txt

Documentation Title:
Creating Your First Dashboard | Superset

Documentation Content:
CAST(recovery_rate) as float
).
Aggregate functions aren't allowed in calculated columns.
Creating charts in Explore view
​
Superset has 2 main interfaces for exploring data:
Explore
: no-code viz builder. Select your dataset, select the chart,
customize the appearance, and publish.
SQL Lab
: SQL IDE for cleaning, joining, and preparing data for Explore workflow
We'll focus on the Explore view for creating charts right now.
To start the Explore workflow from the
Datasets
tab, start by clicking the name
of the dataset that will be powering your chart.
You're now presented with a powerful workflow for exploring data and iterating on charts.
The
Dataset
view on the left-hand side has a list of columns and metrics,
scoped to the current dataset you selected.
The
Data
preview below the chart area also gives you helpful data context.
Using the
Data
tab and
Customize
tabs, you can change the visualization type,
select the temporal column, select the metric to group by, and customize
the aesthetics of the chart.
As you customize your chart using drop-down menus, make sure to click the
Run
button
to get visual feedback.
In the following screenshot, we craft a grouped Time-series Bar Chart to visualize
our quarterly sales data by product line just by clicking options in drop-down menus.
Creating a slice and dashboard
​
To save your chart, first click the
Save
button. You can either:
Save your chart and add it to an existing dashboard
Save your chart and add it to a new dashboard
In the following screenshot, we save the chart to a new "Superset Duper Sales Dashboard":
To publish, click
Save and goto Dashboard
.
Behind the scenes, Superset will create a slice and store all the information needed
to create your chart in its thin data layer
(the query, chart type, options selected, name, etc).
To resize the chart, start by clicking the Edit Dashboard button in the top right corner.
Then, click and drag the bottom right corner of the chart until the chart layout snaps
into a position you like onto the underlying grid.
Click
Save
to persist the changes.
Congrats! You’ve successfully linked, analyzed, and visualized data in Superset.



Documentation Source:
superset.apache.org/docs/using-superset/exploring-data/index.txt

Documentation Title:
Exploring Data in Superset | Superset

Documentation Content:
Within Metrics, remove the default
COUNT(*)
metric and instead add
AVG(Cost)
, to show the mean value.
Next, select
Run Query
to show the data on the chart.
How does this look? Well, we can see that the average cost goes up in December. However, perhaps it
doesn’t make sense to combine both single and return tickets, but rather show two separate lines for
each ticket type.
Let’s do this by selecting Ticket Single or Return in the Group by box, and the selecting
Run
Query
again. Nice! We can see that on average single tickets are cheaper than returns and that the
big spike in December is caused by return tickets.
Our chart is looking pretty good already, but let’s customize some more by going to the Customize
tab on the left hand pane. Within this pane, try changing the Color Scheme, removing the range
filter by selecting No in the Show Range Filter drop down and adding some labels using X Axis Label
and Y Axis Label.
Once you’re done, publish the chart in your Tutorial Dashboard.
Markup
​
In this section, we will add some text to our dashboard. If you’re there already, you can navigate
to the dashboard by selecting Dashboards on the top menu, then Tutorial dashboard from the list of
dashboards. Got into edit mode by selecting
Edit dashboard
.
Within the Insert components pane, drag and drop a Markdown box on the dashboard. Look for the blue
lines which indicate the anchor where the box will go.
Now, to edit the text, select the box. You can enter text, in markdown format (see
this Markdown Cheatsheet
for
more information about this format). You can toggle between Edit and Preview using the menu on the
top of the box.
To exit, select any other part of the dashboard. Finally, don’t forget to keep your changes using
Save changes
.
Publishing Your Dashboard
​
If you have followed all of the steps outlined in the previous section, you should have a dashboard
that looks like the below. If you would like, you can rearrange the elements of the dashboard by
selecting
Edit dashboard
and dragging and dropping.



Documentation Source:
superset.apache.org/docs/using-superset/exploring-data/index.txt

Documentation Title:
Exploring Data in Superset | Superset

Documentation Content:
The three types of transformation are:
Setting up the base chart
In this section, we’re going to set up a base chart which we can then apply the different
Advanced
Analytics
features to. Start off by creating a new chart using the same
tutorial_flights
datasource and the
Line Chart
visualization type. Within the Time section, set the Time Range as
1st October 2011 and 31st October 2011.
Next, in the query section, change the Metrics to the sum of Cost. Select
Run Query
to show the
chart. You should see the total cost per day for each month in October 2011.
Finally, save the visualization as Tutorial Advanced Analytics Base, adding it to the Tutorial
Dashboard.
Rolling Mean
​
There is quite a lot of variation in the data, which makes it difficult to identify any trend. One
approach we can take is to show instead a rolling average of the time series. To do this, in the
Moving Average
subsection of
Advanced Analytics
, select mean in the
Rolling
box and
enter 7 into both Periods and Min Periods. The period is the length of the rolling period expressed
as a multiple of the Time Grain. In our example, the Time Grain is day, so the rolling period is 7
days, such that on the 7th October 2011 the value shown would correspond to the first seven days of
October 2011. Lastly, by specifying Min Periods as 7, we ensure that our mean is always calculated
on 7 days and we avoid any ramp up period.
After displaying the chart by selecting
Run Query
you will see that the data is less variable
and that the series starts later as the ramp up period is excluded.
Save the chart as Tutorial Rolling Mean and add it to the Tutorial Dashboard.
Time Comparison
​
In this section, we will compare values in our time series to the value a week before. Start off by
opening the Tutorial Advanced Analytics Base chart, by going to
Charts
in the top menu and then
selecting the visualization name in the list (alternatively, find the chart in the Tutorial
Dashboard and select Explore chart from the menu for that visualization).



Documentation Source:
superset.apache.org/docs/using-superset/exploring-data/index.txt

Documentation Title:
Exploring Data in Superset | Superset

Documentation Content:
By the
end of this section, you will have created a table that shows the monthly spend on flights for the
first six months, by department, by travel class.
Create a new chart by selecting
+ ‣ Chart
from the top right corner. Choose
tutorial_flights again as a datasource, then click on the visualization type to get to the
visualization menu. Select the
Pivot Table
visualization (you can filter by entering text in the
search box) and then
Create New Chart
.
In the
Time
section, keep the Time Column as Travel Date (this is selected automatically as we
only have one time column in our dataset). Then select Time Grain to be month as having daily data
would be too granular to see patterns from. Then select the time range to be the first six months of
2011 by click on Last week in the Time Range section, then in Custom selecting a Start / end of 1st
January 2011 and 30th June 2011 respectively by either entering directly the dates or using the
calendar widget (by selecting the month name and then the year, you can move more quickly to far
away dates).
Next, within the
Query
section, remove the default COUNT(
*
) and add Cost, keeping the default
SUM aggregate. Note that Apache Superset will indicate the type of the metric by the symbol on the
left hand column of the list (ABC for string, # for number, a clock face for time, etc.).
In
Group by
select
Time
: this will automatically use the Time Column and Time Grain
selections we defined in the Time section.
Within
Columns
, select first Department and then Travel Class. All set – let’s
Run Query
to
see some data!
You should see months in the rows and Department and Travel Class in the columns. Publish this chart
to your existing Tutorial Dashboard you created earlier.
Line Chart
​
In this section, we are going to create a line chart to understand the average price of a ticket by
month across the entire dataset.
In the Time section, as before, keep the Time Column as Travel Date and Time Grain as month but this
time for the Time range select No filter as we want to look at entire dataset.



