Documentation Source:
www.metabase.com/learn/visualization/funnel.txt

Documentation Title:
Funnel charts

Documentation Content:
We’ll show examples both in the query builder and the sql editor:
Query builder
SQl editor
The Sample Database doesn’t contain events; it’s just four tables with order, product, and customer information. So we’ll have to get a little creative here to come up with examples for funnel charts.
Funnel chart example using the query builder
Here’s a contrived example. We’re going to pretend that the steps in our funnel are product categories (because we don’t have anything like statuses or pages or other progressions in our Sample Database). Here’s the
notebook view
of our query:
What we’ve done is joined the
Orders
and
Products
tables (see
Joins in Metabase
), summarized the count of orders, and grouped those counts by product category. Then we’ve sorted the results by count, descending. To get a funnel chart, we clicked on
Visualization
in the bottom left, and selected
Funnel
. In the settings of a funnel chart, under the
Data
tab, you can set the
Step
(in this case we’re using the product category) and the
Measure
(the count of orders).
Notice that in the
Settings -> Display
tab, you can change the
Funnel type
to “Bar chart”, which is another valid way of representing the data. The advantage of a funnel chart (beyond the visual metaphor) is that Metabase will also show the percentage of the measure that made it through each step.
Keeping the steps sorted with a custom column
If the count in each step doesn’t naturally decrease, you may need to sort the steps manually to preserve the actual progression of steps. For example, if you have the same count in successive steps, the steps could get swapped in the funnel chart, like if Metabase defaults to sorting the steps alphabetically to break the tie. Likewise if you have funnels that can expand in count at certain steps (new people entering the funnel halfway through, for example) the funnel will default to descending counts, which will mess up your step order.
In these cases, you can create an additional column to number the steps, and sort by step to enforce the correct funnel sequence.



Documentation Source:
www.metabase.com/learn/visualization/funnel.txt

Documentation Title:
Funnel charts

Documentation Content:
Guide to line charts
Master the bar chart visualization
Visualize your data as a histogram
Visualizing data with maps
Almost everything you can do with the table visualization
Creating pivot tables
Funnel charts
Building dashboards
BI dashboard best practices
Linking filters in dashboards
Custom destinations: choose what happens when people click on charts in your dashboard
Cross-filtering: using a chart to update a dashboard filter
Adding filters to dashboards with SQL questions
Build a record lookup tool with Metabase
Why you should regularly edit your dashboards
Fun with Markdown in your dashboards
Time series analysis
Getting insights from time series data
Comparing time periods
Visualizing time series comparisons
Measuring rates of change
Data modeling
Models in Metabase
Analytics engineering for fact tables
Actions
Build a basic CRUD app with actions
Analytics with Metabase
Which data warehouse should you use?



Documentation Source:
www.metabase.com/docs/v0.49/questions/sharing/visualizations/funnel.txt

Documentation Title:
Funnel charts

Documentation Content:
when
Analytics dashboards
Share insights with anyone, anywhere
SQL editor
For advanced data users
Sandboxing
Set boundaries around your data
Models
A starting point for questions
Permissions
Keep your data secure and private
CSV upload
Go beyond VLOOKUP
Documentation
Resources
Learn
Blog
Events
Customers
Discussion
Partners
Community Stories
Startup Guide to Financial Modeling
New
Community Data Stack Report
New
Pricing
Log in
v0.49
Questions
Funnel charts
Funnels
are commonly used in e-commerce or sales to visualize how many customers are present within each step of a checkout flow or sales cycle. At their most general, funnels show you values broken out by steps, and the percent decrease between each successive step. To create a funnel in Metabase, you’ll need to have a table with at least two columns: one column that contains the metric you’re interested in, and another that contains the funnel’s steps.
For example, I might have an Opportunities table, and I could create a question that gives me the number of sales leads broken out by a field that contains stages such as
Prospecting
,
Qualification
,
Proposal
,
Negotiation
, and
Closed
. In this example, the percentages shown along the x-axis tell you what percent of the total starting opportunities are still present at each subsequent step; so 18.89% of our total opportunities have made it all the way to being closed deals. The number below each percent is the actual value of the count at that step — in our example, the actual number of opportunities that are currently at each step. Together, these numbers help you figure out where you’re losing your customers or users.
Read docs for other
versions of Metabase
.
Did this article help you?
Yes
No
Send
Thanks for your feedback!
Want to improve these docs?
Propose a change.
Subscribe to our newsletter
Stay in touch with updates and news from Metabase. No spam, ever.



Documentation Source:
www.metabase.com/learn/visualization/line-charts.txt

Documentation Title:
Guide to line charts

Documentation Content:
How to create a line chart
Let’s take a look at the
Orders
table in the
Sample Database
that ships with Metabase. From the main navigation bar, click on
+ New
>
Question
, which will take you to Metabase’s query builder. Choose
Raw Data
>
Sample Database
, then pick the
Orders
table. Click
Visualize
, then click the
Visualization button
in the bottom right to bring up the
Visualization sidebar
.
Let’s start with how
not
to create a line chart. If you select
line chart
, Metabase will present you with an empty line chart.
Metabase can’t read minds (yet), so it doesn’t know which columns from the
Orders
table to use for the x and y axes. To create a line chart, you’ll need to pick a metric for Metabase to plot over time. For example, you could show order totals over time by setting the x axis to
created_at
and the y axis to
total
. Metabase will automatically plot the line chart:
That’s technically a line chart, but it looks more like the cardiograph of a startled hummingbird, and that’s even after Metabase has truncated the results shown. (If you hover over the gray warning triangle in the upper right, you’ll see that Metabase has only plotted 2,000 rows.)
To make the chart more legible, we can summarize the data, so each point on the line chart is an aggregate of rows—“buckets” of records. (It’s much more common to plot unaggregated rows in visualizations like
pin maps
, or a
scatterplot
, e.g., to show each product plotted by price and rating.)
As an example of an aggregated metric, let’s plot the sum of order totals for each month. Click on the green
Summarize button
to pull up the
Summarize sidebar
. Metabase defaults to counting the records, but we’re not interested in the number of orders, so we’ll click on
Count
and change it to
Sum of
and select the
Total
column from
Order
.
Next, we’ll want to group our order totals by month.



