Documentation Source:
superset.apache.org/docs/using-superset/creating-your-first-dashboard/index.txt

Documentation Title:
Creating Your First Dashboard | Superset

Documentation Content:
Congrats! You’ve successfully linked, analyzed, and visualized data in Superset. There are a wealth
of other table configuration and visualization options, so please start exploring and creating
slices and dashboards of your own
ֿ
Manage access to Dashboards
​
Access to dashboards is managed via owners (users that have edit permissions to the dashboard)
Non-owner users access can be managed two different ways:
Dataset permissions - if you add to the relevant role permissions to datasets it automatically grants implicit access to all dashboards that uses those permitted datasets
Dashboard roles - if you enable
DASHBOARD_RBAC
feature flag
then you be able to manage which roles can access the dashboard
Granting a role access to a dashboard will bypass dataset level checks. Having dashboard access implicitly grants read access to all the featured charts in the dashboard, and thereby also all the associated datasets.
If no roles are specified for a dashboard, regular
Dataset permissions
will apply.
Customizing dashboard
​
The following URL parameters can be used to modify how the dashboard is rendered:
standalone
:
0
(default): dashboard is displayed normally
1
: Top Navigation is hidden
2
: Top Navigation + title is hidden
3
: Top Navigation + title + top level tabs are hidden
show_filters
:
0
: render dashboard without Filter Bar
1
(default): render dashboard with Filter Bar if native filters are enabled
expand_filters
:
(default): render dashboard with Filter Bar expanded if there are native filters
0
: render dashboard with Filter Bar collapsed
1
: render dashboard with Filter Bar expanded
For example, when running the local development build, the following will disable the
Top Nav and remove the Filter Bar:
http://localhost:8088/superset/dashboard/my-dashboard/?standalone=1&show_filters=0
Edit this page
Previous
Importing and Exporting Datasources
Next
Exploring Data in Superset
Creating Your First Dashboard
Connecting to a new database
Registering a new table
Customizing column properties
Superset semantic layer
Creating charts in Explore view
Creating a slice and dashboard
Manage access to Dashboards
Customizing dashboard
We use
Copyright © 2024,
          The
Apache Software Foundation
,
          Licensed under the Apache
License
.



Documentation Source:
superset.apache.org/docs/using-superset/creating-your-first-dashboard/index.txt

Documentation Title:
Creating Your First Dashboard | Superset

Documentation Content:
CAST(recovery_rate) as float
).
Aggregate functions aren't allowed in calculated columns.
Creating charts in Explore view
​
Superset has 2 main interfaces for exploring data:
Explore
: no-code viz builder. Select your dataset, select the chart,
customize the appearance, and publish.
SQL Lab
: SQL IDE for cleaning, joining, and preparing data for Explore workflow
We'll focus on the Explore view for creating charts right now.
To start the Explore workflow from the
Datasets
tab, start by clicking the name
of the dataset that will be powering your chart.
You're now presented with a powerful workflow for exploring data and iterating on charts.
The
Dataset
view on the left-hand side has a list of columns and metrics,
scoped to the current dataset you selected.
The
Data
preview below the chart area also gives you helpful data context.
Using the
Data
tab and
Customize
tabs, you can change the visualization type,
select the temporal column, select the metric to group by, and customize
the aesthetics of the chart.
As you customize your chart using drop-down menus, make sure to click the
Run
button
to get visual feedback.
In the following screenshot, we craft a grouped Time-series Bar Chart to visualize
our quarterly sales data by product line just by clicking options in drop-down menus.
Creating a slice and dashboard
​
To save your chart, first click the
Save
button. You can either:
Save your chart and add it to an existing dashboard
Save your chart and add it to a new dashboard
In the following screenshot, we save the chart to a new "Superset Duper Sales Dashboard":
To publish, click
Save and goto Dashboard
.
Behind the scenes, Superset will create a slice and store all the information needed
to create your chart in its thin data layer
(the query, chart type, options selected, name, etc).
To resize the chart, start by clicking the Edit Dashboard button in the top right corner.
Then, click and drag the bottom right corner of the chart until the chart layout snaps
into a position you like onto the underlying grid.
Click
Save
to persist the changes.
Congrats! You’ve successfully linked, analyzed, and visualized data in Superset.



Documentation Source:
superset.apache.org/docs/using-superset/exploring-data/index.txt

Documentation Title:
Exploring Data in Superset | Superset

Documentation Content:
Within Metrics, remove the default
COUNT(*)
metric and instead add
AVG(Cost)
, to show the mean value.
Next, select
Run Query
to show the data on the chart.
How does this look? Well, we can see that the average cost goes up in December. However, perhaps it
doesn’t make sense to combine both single and return tickets, but rather show two separate lines for
each ticket type.
Let’s do this by selecting Ticket Single or Return in the Group by box, and the selecting
Run
Query
again. Nice! We can see that on average single tickets are cheaper than returns and that the
big spike in December is caused by return tickets.
Our chart is looking pretty good already, but let’s customize some more by going to the Customize
tab on the left hand pane. Within this pane, try changing the Color Scheme, removing the range
filter by selecting No in the Show Range Filter drop down and adding some labels using X Axis Label
and Y Axis Label.
Once you’re done, publish the chart in your Tutorial Dashboard.
Markup
​
In this section, we will add some text to our dashboard. If you’re there already, you can navigate
to the dashboard by selecting Dashboards on the top menu, then Tutorial dashboard from the list of
dashboards. Got into edit mode by selecting
Edit dashboard
.
Within the Insert components pane, drag and drop a Markdown box on the dashboard. Look for the blue
lines which indicate the anchor where the box will go.
Now, to edit the text, select the box. You can enter text, in markdown format (see
this Markdown Cheatsheet
for
more information about this format). You can toggle between Edit and Preview using the menu on the
top of the box.
To exit, select any other part of the dashboard. Finally, don’t forget to keep your changes using
Save changes
.
Publishing Your Dashboard
​
If you have followed all of the steps outlined in the previous section, you should have a dashboard
that looks like the below. If you would like, you can rearrange the elements of the dashboard by
selecting
Edit dashboard
and dragging and dropping.



Documentation Source:
superset.apache.org/docs/using-superset/exploring-data/index.txt

Documentation Title:
Exploring Data in Superset | Superset

Documentation Content:
Click on the entry to
launch an Explore workflow using this dataset.
In this section, we'll create a table visualization
to show the number of flights and cost per travel class.
By default, Apache Superset only shows the last week of data. In our example, we want to visualize all
of the data in the dataset. Click the
Time ‣ Time Range
section and change
the
Range Type
to
No Filter
.
Click
Apply
to save.
Now, we want to specify the rows in our table by using the
Group by
option. Since in this
example, we want to understand different Travel Classes, we select
Travel Class
in this menu.
Next, we can specify the metrics we would like to see in our table with the
Metrics
option.
COUNT(*)
, which represents the number of rows in the table
(in this case, quantity of flights in each Travel Class)
SUM(Cost)
, which represents the total cost spent by each Travel Class
Finally, select
Run Query
to see the results of the table.
To save the visualization, click on
Save
in the top left of the screen. In the following modal,
Select the
Save as
option and enter the chart name as Tutorial Table (you will be able to find it again through the
Charts
screen, accessible in the top menu).
Select
Add To Dashboard
and enter
Tutorial Dashboard. Finally, select
Save & Go To Dashboard
.
Dashboard Basics
​
Next, we are going to explore the dashboard interface. If you’ve followed the previous section, you
should already have the dashboard open. Otherwise, you can navigate to the dashboard by selecting
Dashboards on the top menu, then Tutorial dashboard from the list of dashboards.
On this dashboard you should see the table you created in the previous section. Select
Edit
dashboard
and then hover over the table. By selecting the bottom right hand corner of the table
(the cursor will change too), you can resize it by dragging and dropping.
Finally, save your changes by selecting Save changes in the top right.
Pivot Table
​
In this section, we will extend our analysis using a more complex visualization, Pivot Table.



