Documentation Source:
www.metabase.com/learn/visualization/histograms.txt

Documentation Title:
Visualize your data as a histogram

Documentation Content:
The bins are of equal length (and can be empty), and the bins are contiguous. The height of each bar represents the count (or proportion) of the items in the bin. The number of bins is up to the user, though Metabase will automatically select the number of bins for you.
Here’s a bar chart that displays the count of people from the People table grouped by referral source.
Here’s the histogram we’ll create in
the walkthrough below
.
Metabase makes it easy to create a histogram. In fact, if the data is suitable for a histogram, Metabase will automatically create a histogram for you.
Create a histogram
Follow along with Metabase’s
Sample Database
to create the histogram detailed below.
Select
+ New
>
Question
. In the
Query Builder
under
Pick your starting data
, choose
Raw Data
>
Sample Database
, and select the
Orders
table. Then
Visualize
the results.
Once you’re viewing the Orders table, click
Summarize
. Scroll down and select
Total
, and click the
+
button to add the grouping. Metabase will automatically create a histogram for you!
The histogram shows that customers are most likely to make purchases totaling in the $40-60 range. If you hover over one of the bars, Metabase will display the count of orders in that range. You can also click on a bar to
drill-through the data
and see the orders that compose the bar.
Edit a histogram
Metabase gives you
a lot of knobs for customizing a bar chart
. For now, we’ll hone in on the settings that make histograms shine.
Metabase will automatically set the number of bins, but you can change how Metabase bins the data. Click
Summarize
, scroll down to
# Total
, and click on
Auto binned
. A dropdown menu will present the options:
Auto bin
, 10, 50, or 100 bins, or
Don't bin
.
Click the
Settings
>
Axes
. The x-axis scale currently says
Histogram
. Metabase detects when your
bar chart
should present as a histogram, and selects the best x-axis scale for your visualization.



Documentation Source:
www.metabase.com/learn/visualization/line-charts.txt

Documentation Title:
Guide to line charts

Documentation Content:
How to create a line chart
Let’s take a look at the
Orders
table in the
Sample Database
that ships with Metabase. From the main navigation bar, click on
+ New
>
Question
, which will take you to Metabase’s query builder. Choose
Raw Data
>
Sample Database
, then pick the
Orders
table. Click
Visualize
, then click the
Visualization button
in the bottom right to bring up the
Visualization sidebar
.
Let’s start with how
not
to create a line chart. If you select
line chart
, Metabase will present you with an empty line chart.
Metabase can’t read minds (yet), so it doesn’t know which columns from the
Orders
table to use for the x and y axes. To create a line chart, you’ll need to pick a metric for Metabase to plot over time. For example, you could show order totals over time by setting the x axis to
created_at
and the y axis to
total
. Metabase will automatically plot the line chart:
That’s technically a line chart, but it looks more like the cardiograph of a startled hummingbird, and that’s even after Metabase has truncated the results shown. (If you hover over the gray warning triangle in the upper right, you’ll see that Metabase has only plotted 2,000 rows.)
To make the chart more legible, we can summarize the data, so each point on the line chart is an aggregate of rows—“buckets” of records. (It’s much more common to plot unaggregated rows in visualizations like
pin maps
, or a
scatterplot
, e.g., to show each product plotted by price and rating.)
As an example of an aggregated metric, let’s plot the sum of order totals for each month. Click on the green
Summarize button
to pull up the
Summarize sidebar
. Metabase defaults to counting the records, but we’re not interested in the number of orders, so we’ll click on
Count
and change it to
Sum of
and select the
Total
column from
Order
.
Next, we’ll want to group our order totals by month.



Documentation Source:
www.metabase.com/learn/visualization/histograms.txt

Documentation Title:
Visualize your data as a histogram

Documentation Content:
Managing your information budget
Don't use "data" as a crutch for lazy thinking
Common data model mistakes made by startups
Ten common analytics mistakes startups make
The five stages of embedding grief
The push and pull of analytics
ETLs, ELTs, and Reverse ETLs
Administration and operation
Admin overview
How to run Metabase in production
Managing people in Metabase
Guide to sharing data
Keeping your analytics organized
Multiple environments
Serialization: preloading dashboards in a new Metabase instance
Setting up a git-based workflow
Making dashboards faster
Metabase at scale
Working with the Metabase API
Permissions
Permissions strategies
Guide to data permissions
Working with collection permissions
Basic sandboxes: setting row-level permissions
Custom sandboxes: limiting access to columns
Data sandboxes: personalizing the data that people can see in Metabase
Use Impersonation to get row-level permissions with both GUI and SQL queries
Configuring multi-tenant data permissions
How to keep tabs on your data
Auditing your users and data
Using LDAP for authentication and access control
Customer-facing analytics
Strategies for delivering customer-facing analytics
Publishing data visualizations to the web
A Metabase mystery
Multi-tenant self-service analytics
Brand your Metabase
Securing embedded Metabase
Learn
Visualizing data
Article
Visualize your data as a histogram
Learn when to use a histogram, and how Metabase makes it easy to create histograms.
Histograms versus bar charts
Create a histogram
Edit a histogram
Further reading
We’ll walk through creating a
histogram
, which is a type of bar chart that displays groups of data across a continuous range. Histograms are helpful for gaining insights into how much of an item people are likely to buy, the price range they are likely to purchase within, or even the time of year that most people make purchases.
Histograms versus bar charts
Histograms are a type of
bar chart
. While the bars on a typical bar chart represent categorical groups, the bars on a histogram represent ranges along a continuous, quantifiable spectrum.
In other words, you split the data into bins in order to view the distribution of values within a range.



Documentation Source:
www.metabase.com/learn/visualization/bar-charts.txt

Documentation Title:
Master the bar chart visualization

Documentation Content:
Next, summarize the count of rows and group by Product -> Category.
Click
Visualize
, and Metabase will present the data as a bar chart:
Bar chart settings
To customize the chart, click on the
gear
icon at the bottom left of the chart to open the settings sidebar, within the settings, you’ll find the following tabs:
Data
Display
Axes
Data
Here we can format and style our bar chart by clicking the
...
under Y-axis.
To change bar colors, click the color swatch and choose from the palette.
Customize your chart in the
Formatting tab
by adjusting numbers, separators, decimals, and scale. You can also add Prefix/Suffix as needed. In the
Style tab
, select colors, modify labels, choose a chart type (line, area, or bar), and position the Y-axis according to your chart preferences.
Display settings
In the Settings > Display section, you can customize your chart in several ways:
Add a goal line
This specifies where you want the values to be. Metabase can
alert
you when the values exceed (or drop below) that goal. For example, you can add a goal line at 5500 and name it ‘Arbitrary Sales Goal’.
Show values
Toggling on ‘Show values’ places the count values above each column.
Add a trend line
When your data is summarized and grouped by a datetime field, you can add a trend lie. The trend line shows the general direction that your data is heading in over time. To add a trend line, simply toggle on the ‘Trend line’ option.
Stacking options
When creating bar or area charts with multiple series, you can choose how the series are displayed with the stacking options. You can choose not to stack the series, stack them, or stack them at 100%.
We can also set the display to a
stacked bar chart
, which we’ll get into in a bit.
Axes
Select
Axes
in the
Settings sidebar
.
Here we can specify how we want our table organized.
Label
Here we can hide or customize axes labels.
Show lines and marks
With the
Show lines and marks
options we can change the way the categories and quantities are represented on each axis.



