Documentation Source:
airbyte.com/tutorials/build-a-github-activity-dashboard-for-your-project.txt

Documentation Title:
Build a GitHub Activity Dashboard for your Project | Airbyte | Airbyte

Documentation Content:
Creating the Airbyte connection
Back in the Airbyte web app in your browser, click on the
new source
button in the top right corner of the app to go to the page to add a new Airbyte source.
Enter the name
github-source
as the source name and click the drop down and select Github connector as source type. After selecting the GitHub source type, you will be presented with two text boxes.The first is to enter a repository you want. In this box, type in
airbytehq/airbyte
, and then, in the second box, you will need to provide a GitHub access token which you can obtain from
here
.
Make sure you grant the token the repo and write:discussion permissions. After you've filled all fields, hit the set up source button.
If the setup was successful, you will be taken to the destination screen where you will add a new destination.
Click the
add destination
button, and, in the drop down that follows, click
add new destination
. Then, you will see a page to add the destination name. Type in the name we gave the Postgres container we created earlier (github-destination), and then choose Postgres as the destination type.
After, you will be presented with some text boxes to enter the database connection details. Enter the values for the Postgres container we created earlier:
host - localhost
post - 3003
schema - public (leave default)
database - postgres
Password - password
username - postgres
Then click on the basic normalization toggle button to check it on as we want Airbyte to normalize the data coming in from GitHub. Overall the UI should look like this:
Then click on the Set up destination button. If your credentials are all good for the database, the postgres destination would have been set, and now you will need to make the connection from the source (GitHub) to the destination (Postgres).
You should check the boxes that are checked in the screenshot below, and then choose how often Airbyte will attempt to replicate data to be every hour in the Sync frequency drop down. Then, click on the
Set up connection
button.
You will be taken to the source page, click on the source and you will see the status of your sync.



Documentation Source:
airbyte.com/docs.airbyte.com/using-airbyte/getting-started/add-a-source.txt

Documentation Title:
Add a Source | Airbyte Documentation

Documentation Content:
info
Some sources will have an
Optional Fields
tab. You can open this tab to view and configure any additional optional parameters that exist for the souce, but you do not have to do so to successfully set up the connector.
Once you've filled out all the required fields, click on the
Set up source
button and Airbyte will run a check to verify the connection. Happy replicating!
Can't find the connectors that you want? Try your hand at easily building one yourself using our
Connector Builder
!
Edit this page
Previous
Core Concepts
Next
Add a Destination



Documentation Source:
airbyte.com/docs.airbyte.com/using-airbyte/getting-started/set-up-a-connection.txt

Documentation Title:
Set up a Connection | Airbyte Documentation

Documentation Content:
Set up a Connection | Airbyte Documentation
Skip to main content
About Airbyte
Tutorials
Support
Cloud Status
Try Airbyte Cloud
Search
Airbyte Connectors
Connector Catalog
Build a Connector
Connector Support Levels
Using Airbyte
Getting Started
Core Concepts
Add a Source
Add a Destination
Set up a Connection
Configuring Connections
Managing Syncs
Managing Airbyte
Deploy Airbyte
Self-Managed Enterprise
Upgrading Airbyte
Configuring Airbyte
Access Management
Airbyte at Scale
Security
Integrating with Airbyte
Account Management
Developer Guides
API documentation
Terraform Documentation
Using PyAirbyte
Understand Airbyte
Contribute to Airbyte
Licenses
Community
Getting Support
Code of Conduct
Product Updates
Roadmap
Release Notes
Getting Started
Set up a Connection
On this page
Set up a Connection
Available
Cloud
Available
Self-Managed Community (OSS)
Available
Self-Managed Enterprise
Now that you've learned how to set up your first
source
and
destination
, it's time to finish the setup by creating your very first connection!
On the left side of your main Airbyte dashboard, select
Connections
. You will be prompted to choose which source and destination to use for this connection. For this example, we'll use the
Google Sheets
source and the destination you previously set up, either
Local JSON
or
Google Sheets
.
Configure the connection
​
Once you've chosen your source and destination you can configure the connection. You'll first be asked a few questions about how your data should sync, these correlate to our sync modes which you can read more about on
this page
.
Most users select "Mirror Source", which will simply copy the data from the source to the destination where you'll see one row in the destination for each row in the source. If you prefer to Append Historical Changes or take a Full Snapshot with each sync, you can optionally select those options, but keep in mind those will create duplicate records in your destination. The sync mode we choose for all the enabled streams will reflect your selection here.
Next, you can toggle which streams you want to replicate.



Documentation Source:
airbyte.com/docs.airbyte.com/using-airbyte/getting-started/set-up-a-connection.txt

Documentation Title:
Set up a Connection | Airbyte Documentation

Documentation Content:
Next, you can toggle which streams you want to replicate. Our test data consists of three streams, which we've enabled and set to
Incremental - Append + Deduped
sync mode.
Your sync mode is already determined by your selection above, but you can change the sync mode for an individual stream. You can also select a cursor or primary key to enable incremental and/or deduplication. For more information on the nature of each sync mode supported by Airbyte, see
this page
.
You can also select individual fields to sync on this page. Expand the fields available by clicking any stream. This is helpful when you have security concerns or don't want to sync all the data from the source.
Click
Next
to complete your stream setup and move to the connection configuration. This is where you'll set up how often your data will sync and where it will live in the destination. For this demo, we'll set the connection to run at 8 AM every day and sync the connection to a custom namespace with a stream prefix.
note
To ensure your data is synced to the correct place, see our examples for
Destination Namespace
Once you've set up all the connection settings, click "Set up connection". You've successfully set up your first data pipeline with Airbyte. Your first sync is about to begin!
Connection Overview
​
Once you've finished setting up the connection, you will be automatically redirected to a connection overview containing all the tools you need to keep track of your connection.
Here's a basic overview of the tabs and their use:
The
Status
tab shows you an overview of your connector's sync health.
The
Job History
tab allows you to check the logs for each sync. If you encounter any errors or unexpected behaviors during a sync, checking the logs is always a good first step to finding the cause and solution.
The
Schema
tab allows you to modify the streams you chose during the connection setup.
The
Transformation
tab allows you to set up a custom post-sync transformations using dbt.
The
Settings
tab contains the connection settings, and the option to delete the connection if you no longer wish to use it.



