In this task, we aim to use superset to build a user activity chart with given Airbyte connector.
1. Switch to the chromium browser's "Airbyte | Connections" page, click the connection row in the main panel;
2. In the Airbyte connection page, click the button "Sync now" on the right.
3. After the sync finishes, switch to the chromium browser's "Superset" page;
4. If you have not logged in, log in to Superset using username "admin" and password "admin";
5. In the superset interface, click on "Settings" in the upper right corner, then select "Database Connections" from the dropdown menu;
6. In the Database Connections interface, click on the "+ Database" button in the upper right corner;
7. Select and click on "PostgreSQL" to create a new PostgreSQL database;
8. In the "Enter the required PostgreSQL credentials" popup, scroll down and click on "Connect this database with a SQLAlchemy URI string instead";
9. Type "postgresql://postgres:password@172.17.0.1:2000/postgres" in the "SQLALCHEMY URI" box;
10. Click "Connect", and you will return to the superset database interface where you can see the newly created database;
11. Click "Datasets" in the upper left corner to enter the "Datasets" interface;
12. Click the "+ DATASET" button to add datasets;
13. Select "PostgreSQL" in the "DATABASE" column, "public" in the "SCHEMA" column, and "users" in the "TABLE" column;
14. Afterwards, click on the bottom-right "CREATE DATASET AND CREATE CHART";
15. Then on the "Create a new chart" page, choose "Big Number" as the chart type;
16. Click "CREATE NEW CHART" in the bottom right corner;
17. In the Chart settings page, type "Users" in the "Add the name of the chart" field;
18. In the "DATA" settings under the "METRIC" field, search and select "COUNT(*)" and click save;
19. Click the "CREATE CHART" button below the "DATA" settings;
20. After that, click the "Save" button next to the chart name setting;
21. In the "Save chart" popup window, click on the bottom-right "Save" button to complete the creation of the chart.