Documentation Source:
docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/ui-snowsight-worksheets.txt

Documentation Title:
Managing and using worksheets in Snowsight | Snowflake Documentation

Documentation Content:
Select
Close
to return to the current version of the worksheet.
If you want to view the results of a past worksheet run, view the Query History for the worksheet.
See
View query history
.
Stored results for past worksheet versions
¶
Note
Available to most accounts. Accounts in U.S. government regions, accounts using Virtual Private Snowflake (VPS), and accounts
that use Private Connectivity to access Snowflake continue to see query results limited to 10,000 rows.
All results for queries executed in worksheets are available for up to 24 hours. After 24 hours, you must run your query again to view
results.
To support contextual statistics and sharing worksheet results, the query results are cached for up to 90 days, or 25 worksheet versions,
whichever is greater. This cache is included in the data storage usage for your account.
Recover worksheets owned by a dropped user
¶
If you drop a user, you can recover up to 500 of the worksheets owned by that user. To recover the worksheets, do the following:
Download recovered worksheets
owned by a dropped user.
Create worksheets from a SQL file
to add the recovered worksheets back to Snowflake.
If you want to change ownership or retain access to worksheets before dropping a user, ask that user to share the worksheets.
See
Sharing worksheets and folders
.
Download recovered worksheets owned by a dropped user
¶
To recover worksheets owned by a dropped user, download a
.tar.gz
archive file of up to 500 worksheets owned by that user.
Note
You must be granted the ACCOUNTADMIN role to recover worksheets of dropped users.
Sign in to Snowsight.
Select
Projects
»
Worksheets
.
Select
»
Recover Worksheets from Dropped User
.
In the dialog box, enter the username of a dropped user in your account.
Important
The case and spelling of the username must exactly match the username as it was stored in Snowflake.
Select
Recover
.
Your web browser downloads a
.tar
file containing up to 500 worksheets. If the dropped user has more than 500 worksheets,
only the 500 most recently modified worksheets are downloaded.



Documentation Source:
docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/ui-snowsight-worksheets.txt

Documentation Title:
Managing and using worksheets in Snowsight | Snowflake Documentation

Documentation Content:
After downloading worksheets owned by a dropped user, add the recovered worksheets to Snowsight by creating worksheets from
the SQL files.
You must expand the downloaded
.tar
file into a folder of
.sql
files before you can add recovered worksheets to
Snowsight. You can only add one worksheet at a time to Snowsight, and the user who adds the recovered worksheets to
Snowsight becomes the new owner of the worksheets.
See
Create worksheets from a SQL file
for details.
Considerations for recovering worksheets owned by dropped users
¶
Considerations when recovering worksheets:
Only the title and contents of the most recently executed version of a worksheet are recovered. Worksheet version history,
sharing recipients and permissions, query results, and worksheet metadata are not recovered.
A maximum of 500 worksheets are recovered. For dropped users with more than 500 worksheets, only the 500 most recently modified worksheets
are recovered.
Only worksheets in Snowsight are recovered. Worksheets in Classic Console owned by dropped users cannot be recovered with
this method.
If multiple dropped users have the same username, worksheets owned by all dropped users with that username are recovered.
If the worksheet recovery fails for unexpected reasons, contact
Snowflake Support
.
Internal Snowflake objects for worksheets
¶
Snowflake creates the following internal objects to support using worksheets in Snowsight:
Object Type
Name
Security integration
WORKSHEETS
Blobs
WORKSHEETS_APP
Database
WORKSHEETS_APP
User
WORKSHEETS_APP_USER
Roles
APPADMIN, WORKSHEETS_APP_RL
These internal objects are used to cache query results in an internal stage in your account. This cached data is encrypted and protected by
the key hierarchy for the account.
The limited privileges granted to the internal role only allow Snowsight to access the internal stage to store those results. The
role
cannot
list objects in your account or access data in your tables.
The Snowsight user and role are returned when you query the
USERS
and
ROLES
views, respectively, in the
ACCOUNT_USAGE
schema
in the SNOWFLAKE shared database.
SHOW <objects>
statements do not return these internal objects.
Was this page helpful?



Documentation Source:
docs.snowflake.com/en/release-notes/2023/ui/2023-12-12.txt

Documentation Title:
December 12–14, 2023 — Snowsight Release Notes | Snowflake Documentation

Documentation Content:
2023 - Snowsight
December 12–14, 2023 — Snowsight Release Notes
¶
This document provides an overview of the new features, enhancements, and other important changes introduced in this update to
Snowsight.
If you have additional questions, please feel free to contact
Snowflake Support
.
Recover worksheets for dropped users —
Preview
¶
With this release, we are pleased to announce the preview of recovering Snowsight worksheets for users that have been dropped
from Snowflake. You can recover up to 500 worksheets for each dropped user.
For more details, see
Recover worksheets owned by a dropped user
.
View Query History in worksheets —–
General Availability
¶
With this release, we are pleased to announce the general availability of Query History in worksheets in Snowsight.
When you view Query History for a worksheet, you can review the queries run in a Snowsight worksheet, as well as the query results.
For more information, see
View query history
.
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
Visit Snowflake
Join the conversation
Develop with Snowflake
Share your feedback
Read the latest on our blog
Get your own certification
Privacy Notice
Site Terms
©
2024
Snowflake, Inc.
All Rights Reserved
.
On this page
Recover worksheets for dropped users — Preview
View Query History in worksheets —– General Availability
Language
:
English
English
Français
Deutsch
日本語
한국어
Português



Documentation Source:
docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql-all.txt

Documentation Title:
All Commands (Alphabetical) | Snowflake Documentation

Documentation Content:
SHOW STREAMS
Lists the streams for which you have access privileges.
SHOW TABLES
Lists the tables for which you have access privileges, including dropped tables that are still within the Time Travel retention period and, therefore, can be undropped.
SHOW TAGS
Lists the tag information.
SHOW TASKS
Lists the tasks for which you have access privileges.
SHOW TRANSACTIONS
List all running transactions.
SHOW USER FUNCTIONS
Lists all user-defined functions (UDFs) for which you have access privileges.
SHOW USERS
Lists all users in the system.
SHOW VARIABLES
Lists all
variables
defined in the current session.
SHOW VERSIONS
Lists the versions defined in the specified application package.
SHOW VERSIONS IN MODEL
Lists the versions in a machine learning model.
SHOW VIEWS
Lists the views, including secure views, for which you have access privileges.
SHOW WAREHOUSES
Lists all the warehouses in your account for which you have access privileges.
T
TRUNCATE MATERIALIZED VIEW
Removes all rows from a materialized view, but leaves the view intact (including all privileges and constraints on the materialized view).
TRUNCATE TABLE
Removes all rows from a table but leaves the table intact (including all privileges and constraints on the table).
U
UNDROP <object>
Restores the specified object to the system.
UNDROP ACCOUNT
Restores a
dropped account
that has not yet been permanently deleted (a dropped account that is within its grace period).
UNDROP DATABASE
Restores the most recent version of a dropped database.
UNDROP DYNAMIC TABLE
Restores the most recent version of a dropped
dynamic table
.
UNDROP EXTERNAL VOLUME
Restores the most recent version of a dropped
external volume
.
UNDROP ICEBERG TABLE
Restores the most recent version of a dropped
Iceberg table
.
UNDROP SCHEMA
Restore the most recent version of a dropped schema.
UNDROP TABLE
Restores the most recent version of a dropped table.
UNDROP TAG
Restores the most recent version of a tag to the system.
UNSET
Drops a
session variable
.
UPDATE
Updates specified rows in the target table with new values.
USE <object>
Specifies the role, warehouse, database, or schema to use for the current session.



