Documentation Source:
www.metabase.com/learn/getting-started/sharing-work.txt

Documentation Title:
Sharing your work with others

Documentation Content:
To do this, click on the
Save
button in the top-right of the query builder.
Metabase will take a stab at giving your question a meaningful name, but you can (and should) use your own naming convention that’ll help you and others find your questions later on. You can also pick which
collection
to save your question in. You can think of collections like folders, to which you can add
permissions
.
Save the question you created as “Orders over $40 grouped by month”. When you save a question, Metabase asks if you want to add the question to a new or existing dashboard. Let’s say “yes” and then click on
Create new dashboard
. The dialog prompts you to create a new dashboard and give it a name and description. You can name it anything you want—we’ll call ours
My First Dashboard
.
Creating a dashboard
Dashboards are great when you have a set of answers that you want to view together. Your saved questions will be displayed as
cards
on the dashboard, which you can resize and move around.
So, after you click the button to create your dashboard, you should see your chart as a little card.
You can move and resize your chart so you can get it looking just how you want it. We’ll make ours a bit wider to let those data points breathe:
Don’t forget to click
Save
at the top to save your work when you’re done.
Sharing answers directly
Once you have asked a question or saved a dashboard, the URL in your browser will link directly to that question or dashboard. That means you can copy and paste that URL into an email or chat and let other people see what you’ve found.
This will only work if Metabase is installed on a shared server, and will require creating Metabase accounts for the people you want to share with. However, if the people you’re sharing questions with don’t have permission to the
collection
it’s stored in — or if you’ve saved it to your
Personal Collection
— they won’t be able to see what you’re sharing.
Set up an alert for your question
You can set up
alerts
on questions to have Metabase message you via email or Slack based on different criteria.



Documentation Source:
www.metabase.com/learn/administration/serialization.txt

Documentation Title:
Serialization: preloading dashboards in a new Metabase instance

Documentation Content:
The user ID is
admin@metabase.local
and the password is
Metapass123
.
You should see a fresh instance of Metabase.
Once you log in,
activate your license key
.
Step 3 - Create dashboards and collections in the source Metabase
We’ll need some application data to export, so let’s create some dashboards using the
Sample Database
included with Metabase. Or rather, let’s let Metabase create some dashboards for us!
In the
Try These X-Rays Based On Your Data
section, click on the card with a
yellow lightning bolt
that says something like
A look at Products
. Metabase will generate a set of questions for you that you can save as a dashboard.
Click on the
Save this
button, and Metabase will save the dashboard and its questions in a
collection
titled something like
A look at Products
.
This collection will be saved to a parent collection titled
Automatically Generated Dashboards
. You can find this collection by clicking on the Metabase logo in the upper left of the navigation bar to return to the home screen. From the home page, in the
Our Analytics
section, click on the
Automatically Generated Dashboards
section. From there you should see the collection
A look at your Products table
.
Next, create a new collection. You can call it whatever you like; we’ll use the exciting name
Default collection
, and save it to the
Our Analytics
collection.
Then we’ll move the
A look at Products
collection to our newly created
Default collection
. On the
A look at Products
collection page, click on the ellipses
…
and select
Move
.
Step 4 - Export from source Metabase
Here’s where we actually start using Metabase’s
serialization
feature.
With our
metabase-source
instance set up with some questions, now it’s time to export this data and import it into our
metabase-target
. That way we don’t have to manually recreate our Default Collection in the target Metabase.



Documentation Source:
www.metabase.com/docs/v0.49/dashboards/introduction.txt

Documentation Title:
Introduction to dashboards

Documentation Content:
when
Analytics dashboards
Share insights with anyone, anywhere
SQL editor
For advanced data users
Sandboxing
Set boundaries around your data
Models
A starting point for questions
Permissions
Keep your data secure and private
CSV upload
Go beyond VLOOKUP
Documentation
Resources
Learn
Blog
Events
Customers
Discussion
Partners
Community Stories
Startup Guide to Financial Modeling
New
Community Data Stack Report
New
Pricing
Log in
v0.49
Dashboards
Introduction to dashboards
What is a dashboard?
Dashboards
group a set of questions into tabs on a single page. You can think of dashboards as shareable reports that feature a set of related questions. You can set up
subscriptions to dashboards
via email or Slack to receive the exported results of the dashboard’s questions.
A dashboard comprises a set of cards arranged on a grid. These cards can be:
Questions, such as
tables, charts, or maps
Text and header cards
Link cards
You can add
filter widgets to dashboards
that filter data identically across multiple questions, and
customize what happens when people click on a chart or a table
.
You can make as many dashboards as you want. Go nuts.
How to create a dashboard
In the top right of the screen, click the
+ New
>
Dashboard
. Give your new dashboard a name and a description, choose which
collections
the dashboard should go in, then click
Create
, and Metabase will take you to your shiny new dashboard.
Adding questions to a dashboard
There are two ways to add questions to a dashboard: from the dashboard, or from the question you want to add.
From a question
: You can add a newly saved question to a dashboard directly from the modal that pops up after you save the question for the first time. You can also add a question to a dashboard by clicking on the ellipsis (
…
) at the top right of a question and selecting
Add to dashboard
.
From a dashboard
: Click on the
pencil
icon to
edit the dashboard
.



Documentation Source:
www.metabase.com/docs/v0.49/questions/query-builder/introduction.txt

Documentation Title:
Asking questions

Documentation Content:
Unlike other steps, the row limit step can only be added at the end of your question.
Viewing the SQL that powers your question
Under the hood, all Metabase questions are SQL (gasp!). If you’re curious to see the SQL that will get run when you ask your question, you can click the little console icon in the top-right of the notebook editor. In the modal that opens up, you’ll also be given the option to start a new query in the SQL editor using this generated SQL as a starting point (assuming you have
SQL permissions
to that database). It’s a nice little shortcut to have Metabase write some boilerplate SQL for you, but then allows you to tweak and customize the query.
Play around with saved questions
Each time you start modifying a saved question, Metabase will create a new question for you. The query builder will display the name of your starting question under
Data
.
Feel free to play around with any saved question, as you won’t have any effect on the existing question. When you hit
Save
on the question, you can choose either to save as a new question (the default), or you can overwrite the existing question you started from.
If you find yourself using the same saved question as a starting point for multiple questions, you may want to turn it into a
model
to let others know it’s a good starting place.
Question version history
For questions,
dashboards
, and
models
, Metabase keeps a version history for the previous fifteen versions of that item.
See
History
.
Further reading
Visualize results
.
Sharing answers
.
Asking questions
Read docs for other
versions of Metabase
.
Did this article help you?
Yes
No
Send
Thanks for your feedback!
Want to improve these docs?
Propose a change.
Subscribe to our newsletter
Stay in touch with updates and news from Metabase. No spam, ever.



